White House now President Obama and
comments on major change in immigration
policy good afternoon everybody this
morning Secretary Napolitano announced
new actions my administration will take
to mend our nation's immigration policy
to make it more fair more efficient and
more just specifically for certain young
people sometimes called dreamers can the
president just change existing laws
let's aspect to the notion that i can
just suspend deportations through
executive order that's just not the case
because there are laws on the books that
congress has passed and i know that
everybody here at bell is studying hard
so you know that we've got three
branches of government Congress passes
the law the executive branch's job is to
enforce and implement those laws and
then the judiciary has to interpret the
laws there are enough laws on the books
by congress that are very clear in terms
of how we have to enforce our
immigration system that for me to simply
through executive order ignore those
congressional mandates would not conform
with my appropriate role as president
who are the dreamers they were brought
to this country by their parents
sometimes even as infants and often have
no idea that they're undocumented until
they apply for a job so
it makes no sense to expel talented
young people to expel these young people
simply because of the actions of their
parents does the innocent relative logic
always apply hmmm
in the absence of any immigration action
from Congress to fix our broken
immigration system effective immediately
the Department of Homeland Security is
taking steps to lift the shadow of
deportation from these young people now
let's be clear this is not amnesty this
is not immunity it's not
it is the right thing to do excuse me
sir uh uh it's not time for questions
sir not while I'm speaking I agree
continue
donation than one that expels innocent
young kids and the answer to your
question sir and the next time I prefer
you let me finish my statements before
you ask that question is this is the
right thing to do for the American
people baby guy I didn't I didn't ask
for an argument I'm answering your
question it is the right thing to do for
the American people and here's why
here's the reason because these young
people are going to make extraordinary
contributions and are already making
contributions to our society I hope so
Martha school officials say that they
decided not to have the students
arrested because they were afraid it
would lead to more violence and possibly
even injuries this was the scene at TUSD
headquarters that the students rushed
the boardroom even wrestling with
security guards to chain themselves into
the board seats once locked in we're
changing the game back to the president
we have always drawn strength from being
a nation of immigrants as well as a
nation of laws and that's going to
continue and my hope is that Congress
recognizes that and get behind it gets
behind this effort all right thank you
very much everybody typically ruled this
out there last year what about American
workers who are unemployed when you
import foreigners